hi i'm alex from e2 language in this
video i'm going to tell you
eight things you need to know before you
take the ielts test on the computer and
we are focusing on
ielts listening i'm going to tell you
about some of the similarities
and some really important differences
between the paper and computer delivered
listening tests
i'm also going to answer that all
important question about capital letters
so keep watching
number one some things are exactly the
same as the paper delivered test
there are four parts and there are
40 questions
number two there is free movement
between all sections of the test
this means when the test begins you can
click forward and look at section three
or section four
and come back to section one throughout
the test you can change your answers for
any question
at any time just be careful about
jumping around
because once the audio starts it doesn't
stop
[Music]
and that is my third point the audio
will begin
automatically you don't need to push
play you cannot push pause and of course
you can't rewind
[Music]
so my fourth point relates to timing in
the test
you'll be happy to know there is time to
read the questions
before the audio plays so at the start
of the test you'll hear some
instructions
and a general introduction and then the
speaker will say something like
now look at questions one to four and
they'll be
30 to 40 seconds pause during that time
you can read
ahead after you've done the first lot of
questions in section one
there's another pause of 30 to 40
seconds
at the end of section one there is one
whole minute
to go back and check your answers but
actually you should be reading forward
to get ready for the next section
in part one two and three of the
listening tests
you have that break in the middle of the
questions
it's only section four where you have
ten
questions with no break oh and by the
way
you have two minutes at the end of the
test not 10 minutes
and you don't really need 10 minutes in
the computer delivered test
paper delivered test that 10 minutes is
to transfer your answers manually onto
the answer sheet
in the computer delivered test your
answers are already in the right place
so two minutes is plenty
[Music]
my fifth point is about functionality on
the screen
hopefully you've seen my video about
ielts reading the same things apply
in ielts computer delivered listening
you can highlight on the screen
you can take notes on the screen you can
make the text
bigger or smaller you can even change
the background color
and of course you can adjust the volume
as well
point number six is a little less
high-tech you get
a pen and paper even in the computer
deliver test
so if you want to take notes or write
down some answers
you can do that just remember that there
is only two minutes at the end and it's
actually easier to put the answers
directly into the answer spot
now the seventh thing that i want to
mention is a really important one
some of the question types look quite
different
on the computer compared to paper
delivered
i'm going to show you a couple of them
now
for this type of question yeah phil it's
pretty obvious what you do need to write
the answer
into the gap this kind of question might
look a little bit unfamiliar though
it's a match features task which is
basically
asking you which coach should parents
see regarding the following issues
we've got four issues here 17 18 19
20 and we've got three coaches
underneath
now in the paper delivered test you
would choose the appropriate
coach let's say a alice bay and you'd
write next to question 17
the letter a in this one on the computer
you don't need to write you just click
so if it's a
click that one b and so on
and you'll find a similar task type
layout when it comes to maps
and plans so here we've got our map of a
town called blissfield
and you'll see within the map there are
letters a b
c d and so on and over here are
the elements that you need to identify
so
question 15 this is the first one you'll
hear basically being asked
where is question 15 where is henry
house
is it a is it g is it i
and again rather than writing the letter
onto a piece of paper
you're just going to click in the box so
if you find henry house is a
click that one the art gallery is e and
so on
and remember that these questions come
in order
with the audio you can see the computer
delivered formatting
on the ielts official page which is
linked in the description below
and also check out our practice tests on
e2language.com
they are in the computer delivered
format as well
[Music]
and the final point number eight is
capital letters
people ask us all the time can i write
in capital letters in listening
if you have a look at the type of
question where you need to put an
answer you'll notice that it's usually
in the middle of a sentence
so if the word is something like um
farm or church or children
it's in the middle of the sentence so it
will be in small letters now
what is the official ielts word on this
well they tell us that we should follow
capitalization convention in the
listening test
that means if you're writing somebody's
name
or a month or a day of the week
or a company name then there should be a
capital letter at the start
however we also hear that capitalization
actually doesn't matter
in the test so do whatever you're
comfortable with my advice
as an english teacher is to follow the
capitalization rules though
and that's everything you need to know
about taking the listening tests
on the computer come and join us at e2
language if you want to practice
together in our live classes or use our
self-access
materials in the platform i'll see you
next time